(Q)EAA issuance and data model (#70)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-data-model.rst

The italian PID is extended according to the `OpenID Identity Assurance Profile [OIDC.IDA] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html>`_, that enables the binding of the PID to a national trust framework, giving all the evidence of the identity proofing procedures underlying the PID issuing in both remote and proximity flows.

> The (Q)EAAs are issued by the (Q)EAA Issuers to a Wallet Instance and MUST be provided in SD-JWT-VC or mDOC CBOR data format. They MAY contain any (qualified) attributes, entitlement or any elettronic attestations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The (Q)EAAs are issued by (Q)EAA Issuers to a Wallet Instance in SD-JWT-VC or mDOC CBOR data format.
```

Author: I kept the normative language here. @peppelinux let me know if it is fine with you.

> The (Q)EAAs are extended according to the `OpenID Identity Assurance Profile [OIDC.IDA] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html>`_, that allows the recipients to know the Authentic Sources where where the data comes from. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The (Q)EAAs are extended according to the `OpenID Identity Assurance Profile [OIDC.IDA] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html>`_, that allows the recipients to know the Authentic Sources where the data comes from. 
```

> The italian (Q)EAAs are extended according to the `OpenID Identity Assurance Profile [OIDC.IDA] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html>`_, that allows the recipients to know the Authentic Sources where the data are taken. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The (Q)EAAs are extended according to the `OpenID Identity Assurance Profile [OIDC.IDA] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html>`_, that allows the recipients to know the Authentic Sources where where the data comes from. 
```

> The PID/(Q)EAA data format and the mechanism through which it is issued into the Wallet Instance and presented to a RP will be detailed in the next sections. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PID/(Q)EAA data format and the mechanism through which a digital credential is issued to the Wallet Instance and presented to an RP is described in the following sections. 
```

SD-JWT
======

> The PID/(Q)EAA is given as a Verifiable Credential with JSON payload based on the `Selective Disclosure JWT format <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-04>`_ as specified in `[draft-terbu-sd-jwt-vc-latest] <https://vcstuff.github.io/draft-terbu-sd-jwt-vc/draft-terbu-oauth-sd-jwt-vc.html>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PID/(Q)EAA is issued in the form of a digital credential. The digital credential format is `Selective Disclosure JWT  <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-04>`_ as specified in `[draft-terbu-sd-jwt-vc-latest] <https://vcstuff.github.io/draft-terbu-sd-jwt-vc/draft-terbu-oauth-sd-jwt-vc.html>`_.
```

Author: done

      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **iss**

>       - The PID/(Q)EAA Issuer identifier as URL string (the issuer of this JWT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - URL string representing the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer unique identifier.
```

            -   **claims**.
      - `[OIDC.IDA. Section 5] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html#section-5>`_.

PID/(Q)EAA Verification field 
-----------------------------

> The ``verification`` claim contains the information, as sub claims, regarding the identity trust framework used by the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer to provide a verified User claims.  Some of these additional claims MAY be included in the Disclosures and MAY be selectively disclosed and they are given in the following tables that also specify whether a claim is selectively disclosable (SD) or not (NSD).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``verification`` claim contains the information regarding the trust framework used by the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer to provide the User claims.  Some of these additional claims MAY be selectively disclosed, these are listed in the following tables that specify whether a claim is selectively disclosable (SD) or not (NSD).
```

      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **trust_framework**

>       - [NSD]. For PID credential it MUST be set to ``eidas``. For (Q)EAA it MUST be set to ``eidas2``.

Reviewer: the trust framework is the same for both type 1 and type 2, please use `eidas` only and any other information about the credential type should be defined elsewhere

Author: For PID we use current eidas framework (CIE/SPID). For (Q)EAAs we use new eidas framework (PID). We refer to the latter as eidas2. This is not related to type 1 or type 2. If you want, you can make a proposal, but we shouldn't use eidas for both.

Reviewer: the trust framework is eidas, the level/type of a credential is defined in the trust framework

the corresponding level is in the credential type, since it is PID it then correspond to type1 
we don't have any requirement to have this explicit, I'm ok with having it implicit

Author: done

      - `[OID.IDA. Section 5.1] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html#section-5.1>`_
    * - **assurance_level**

>       - [NSD]. MUST be set according to the LoA required. For PID credential it MUST be set to ``high``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [NSD]. MUST be set according to the required identity Level of Assurance identifier (LoA). For PID credential it MUST be set to ``high``.
```

we don't have a definition of LoA

Author: We should have LoA as a defined term. We use also in the sequence diagram where you proposed to add LoA in the previous PR...

Reviewer: can you please add this term in this PR and resolve this comment?

Author: done

      - `[OID.IDA. Section 5.1] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html#section-5.1>`_
    * - **evidence**

>       - [SD]. JSON Array. Each element is the electronic evidence of the User identification during the PID issuance or, in the case of (Q)EAA, it represents the evidence of the Authentic Source that ensures the authenticity of the data conveyed by the (Q)EAA. It MUST contain at least the following claims:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [SD]. JSON Array. Each element is the electronic evidence of the User identification during the PID issuance or, in the case of (Q)EAA, with this evidence the Authentic Source assures the authenticity of the data conveyed in the (Q)EAA. It MUST contain at least the following claims:
```

>       - [SD]. JSON Array. Each element is the electronic evidence of the user identification during the PID issuing phase or, in case of (Q)EAA, it represents the evidence of the Authentic Sources that ensure the authenticity of the data conveyed by the (Q)EAA. It MUST contain at least the following claims:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [SD]. JSON Array. Each element is the electronic evidence of the User identification during the PID issuance or, in the case of (Q)EAA, it represents the evidence of the Authentic Source that ensures the authenticity of the data conveyed by the (Q)EAA. It MUST contain at least the following claims:
```

    - **Description**
    - **Reference**
  * - **type** 

>     - Identification of the trust framework used for obtaining the verified claims. For example, in case of PID, ``eidas.it.cie`` means that the CIE id identification scheme is used by the User. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It uniquely identifies the identification scheme used for the provisioning of the credential. For example, in case of PID, ``eidas.it.cie`` means that the CIE id identification scheme is used. 
```

Author: done. I kept "trust framework",  as it is more general and it better applies to a (Q)EAA.

>     - It uniquely identifies the trust framework used for the provisioning of the credential. For example, in case of PID, ``https://eudi.wallet.cie.gov.it`` means that the CIE id identification scheme is used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - It uniquely identifies the trust framework used for the provisioning of the credential. For example, in case of PID, the value ``https://eudi.wallet.cie.gov.it`` means that the CIE id identification scheme is used. 
```

    - `[OID.IDA. Section 5.1.1.2] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html#section-5.1.1.2>`_
  * - **source**
    - JSON Object cointaining the follwoing mandatory claims:

>       - **organization_name**: Name of the Organization. In case of PID, it is the Organization handling the eID used by the User. For the (Q)EAA it is the Authentic Source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - **organization_name**: Name of the organization where the the issuer of the digital credential belongs to.
```

Author: This is not true. In the case of PID, it is the IdP (CIE/SPID).

Reviewer: the issuer is always the credential issuer and not the autentic sources (that's in the backend of the issuer). So I have changed my suggestion

Author: I'm still not convinced by your suggestion. The organization name here is referred to the authentic source. The organization name of the Issuer is in the EC of the Issuer. we have the iss parameter in the SD-JWT, which refers to the Issuer identifier.

Reviewer: yes, I was lost and my suggestion was not related to that piece related to IDA

however I'd not write here the specific constraints about pid and (q)eaa issuance, here we should reduce the text by saying that it contains the autentic source without any IF

Author: Yes I agree with you, I will push a commit asap.

Author: @peppelinux I made a commit, please check if it is fine with you.

>       - **organization_id**: Identification code for the Organization. For public Organization, it MUST be set to the *IPA Code*.

Reviewer: I suggest to create a namespace here to uniquely identify the type of the value

Author: Ok, can you provide a proposal?

Reviewer: `urn:eudi:it:organization_id:<type>:<value>`

then

`urn:eudi:it:organization_id:ipa_code:that-value`

eudi.it should be changed accordingly to the namespace already used in this specs, if used

Author: done

>       - **organization_id**: Identification code for the Organization. For public Organization, it MUST be set to the *IPA Code*, following the URN namespace ``urn:eudi:it:organization_id:ipa_code:<that-value>``.

Reviewer: `urn:eudi:it:organization_id:ipa_code:<that-value>` 
must be included in the expert group sprints, can we do a review of the defined epics and push this accordingly?

@asharif1990 @giadas

      - **country_code**: String representing country in `[ISO3166-1] Alpha-2 (e.g., IT) or [ISO3166-3] syntax <https://www.iso.org/iso-3166-country-codes.html>`_.
    - `[OID.IDA. Section 5.1.1.2] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-identity-assurance-1_0-13.html#section-5.1.1.2>`_

.. warning::

>   Note that the sub-claims of the **evidence** parameter are not selectively disclosable separately, thus, for example, the User cannot give only the *record type* without disclosure the *record source* (organization name, identifier and country). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Note that the sub-claims of the **evidence** parameter are not selectively disclosable separately, thus, for example, the User cannot give only the *record type* without the disclosure of the *source* parameter (organization name, identifier and country). 
```

Author: done. I put some slight modifications. Please, check it it is fine with you.

PID Claims field 
----------------

> The ``claims`` parameter contains the user attributes claims with the following mandatory fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``claims`` parameter contains the User attributes with the following mandatory fields:
```

> PID Non-normative examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PID Non-normative Examples
```

--------------------------

> In the following, the non-normative example of a PID digital credential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, the non-normative example of a PID.
```

Author: done

PID Non-normative examples
--------------------------

> In the following, we provide a non-normative example of PID VC in JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, the non-normative example of a PID digital credential.
```

(Q)EAA Non-normative examples
-----------------------------

> In the following, we provide a non-normative example of (Q)EAA VC in JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, we provide a non-normative example of (Q)EAA VC in JSON.
```

Please, we don't use anymore VC since VCDM refers to w3c vc data model 1.1 and superior while we don't use it in this specs. The term that generally identifies the eid credentials is digital credential and not verifiable credential anymore

Author: ok done.

Author: @peppelinux we have VC in the Acronym Section. Should we also change it there? 
Moreover from [OIDC4VCI ](https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#name-terminology) we have:

_Verifiable Credential (VC):
An Issuer-signed Credential whose authenticity can be cryptographically verified. Can be of any format used in the Issuer-Holder-Verifier Model, including, but not limited to those defined in [[VC_DATA](https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#VC_DATA)] and [[ISO.18013-5](https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.html#ISO.18013-5)]._

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
  "verified_claims": {
      "verification": {

>         "trust_framework": "eidas2",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "trust_framework": "eidas",
```

Author: This refers to new eIDAS framework as the PID presentation is involved. In the case of PID we use the current eIDAS framework as we use CIE/SPID.

Reviewer: how it will be there?

        "assurance_level": "high",
        "evidence": [
          {
            "type": "electronic_record",
            "record": {

>               "type": "eidas.it.pdnd",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              "type": "it.pdnd",
```
I'd prefer to use URL or URIs ...

Author: Ok for me. We should agree on the namespace and then I apply it to other occurrences. The URL maybe is better for collisions. 
Here is my proposal.
- https://eudiw.it.pdnd.gov (for attributes obtained via PDND)
- https://eudiw.it.cie.gov (for attributes obtained via CIE id)

Reviewer: I'm ok with these, just

eudi.wallet.gov.it

probably is better, since eudiw.it is not in the our orgs domain

Author: done. @peppelinux is it ok for you?

              "source": {
                "organization_name": "Ragioneria Generale dello Stato",
                "organization_id": "QLHCFC",
                "country_code": "IT"
              }
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      "claims": {
        "given_name": "Mario",
        "family_name": "Rossi",
        "birthdate": "1980-01-10",
        "place_of_birth": {
          "country": "IT",
          "locality": "Rome"
        },
        "tax_id_code": "TINIT-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
      }
    }
  }

> The corresponding SD-JWT verson for PID is given by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The corresponding SD-JWT for the preivous data is represented as follow, as decoded JSON for both header and payload.
```

(Q)EAA Non-normative examples
-----------------------------

In the following, we provide a non-normative example of (Q)EAA in JSON.

.. code-block:: JSON

  {
  "verified_claims": {
      "verification": {
        "trust_framework": "eidas",
        "assurance_level": "high",
        "evidence": [
          {
            "type": "electronic_record",
            "record": {
              "type": "https://eudi.wallet.pdnd.gov.it",
              "source": {
                "organization_name": "Ragioneria Generale dello Stato",

>                 "organization_id": "QLHCFC",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "organization_id": "urn:eudi:it:organization_id:ipa_code:QLHCFC",
```

                "country_code": "IT"
              }
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      "claims": {
        "given_name": "Mario",
        "family_name": "Rossi",
        "birthdate": "1980-01-10",
        "place_of_birth": {
          "country": "IT",
          "locality": "Rome"
        },
        "tax_id_code": "TINIT-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
      }
    }
  }

> The corresponding SD-JWT for the preivous data is represented as follow, as decoded JSON for both header and payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The corresponding SD-JWT for the previous data is represented as follow, as decoded JSON for both header and payload.
```

    "cnf": {
      "jwk": {
        "kty": "RSA",
        "e": "AQAB",
        "use": "sig",
        "kid": "d126a6a856f7724560484fa9dc59d195",
        "alg": "RS256",
        "n": "oians5wYCWk4wFtEStVYcn_xOw9edKMNGH33_q6_pBI0XaTY7P3apUgjO0ivk5c1NQAVY6PZmcPQ8P1Y0cBAC9STRmzvTvDQcOocLhVy2ZlcXTu39oOGLNra8_LQsaMA386lO_qMW4-uY6DbGZY4vHkScvAC9FIZYDPafqWBEQUNV2QOFMH5VPoihCTKHwMGXnZBatYObg57xSOUX-bvhO_sFMm3k4RvsXcr3MFojAhLfwutu_jK9k7N9KR_mNc5IpiOyhZw_sUmF6SamRqsSPp42KD10hPMW0YJTDMYxBdHrMFeSMHYIMY4oBBT43__a55zILI_CnIk4241wOvGvw"
      }
    },
    "type": "HealthInsuranceData",
    "verified_claims": {
      "verification": {
        "_sd": [
          "2jIR18gfeASHYGB27s7sS3S_iQ4xxFIxCRyiohrBfns"
        ],
        "trust_framework": "eidas",
        "assurance_level": "high"
      },
      "claims": {
        "_sd": [
          "1iztq7bov64xTYbDkWFc44_VjWe029hZqXeUIloqUN4",
          "ENNo31jfzFp8Y2DW0R-fIMeWwe7ELGvGoHMwMBpu14E",
          "FV2CDNWuTqTgOHaftvVaumBF0OlmnyxMswyf4uIxrhY",
          "dZWjq7mJSSX-XTI_HWuE8B2x6IdM5lE-doD_yBpKJao",
          "gHYi19frbD_i4BoaWENOjc3lCnMj4pbGNQcsBj_QM4Q"
        ]
      }
    },
    "_sd_alg": "sha-256"
  }

> In the following the disclosure list is given

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following the disclosure list is given:
```

Claim **family_name**:

-  SHA-256 Hash: ``dZWjq7mJSSX-XTI_HWuE8B2x6IdM5lE-doD_yBpKJao``
-  Disclosure:
   ``WyI2SWo3dE0tYTVpVlBHYm9TNXRtdlZBIiwgImZhbWlseV9uYW1lIiwgIlJvc3NpIl0``
-  Contents: ``["6Ij7tM-a5iVPGboS5tmvVA", "family_name", "Rossi"]``

Claim **birthdate**:

-  SHA-256 Hash: ``FV2CDNWuTqTgOHaftvVaumBF0OlmnyxMswyf4uIxrhY``
-  Disclosure:
   ``WyJlSThaV205UW5LUHBOUGVOZW5IZGhRIiwgImJpcnRoZGF0ZSIsICIxOTgwLTAxLTEwIl0``
-  Contents: ``["eI8ZWm9QnKPpNPeNenHdhQ", "birthdate", "1980-01-10"]``

Claim **place_of_birth**:

-  SHA-256 Hash: ``1iztq7bov64xTYbDkWFc44_VjWe029hZqXeUIloqUN4``
-  Disclosure:
   ``WyJRZ19PNjR6cUF4ZTQxMmExMDhpcm9BIiwgInBsYWNlX29mX2JpcnRoIiwg``
   ``eyJjb3VudHJ5IjogIklUIiwgImxvY2FsaXR5IjogIlJvbWUifV0``
-  Contents:
   ``["Qg_O64zqAxe412a108iroA", "place_of_birth", {"country":``
   ``"IT", "locality": "Rome"}]``

Claim **tax_id_code**:

-  SHA-256 Hash: ``ENNo31jfzFp8Y2DW0R-fIMeWwe7ELGvGoHMwMBpu14E``
-  Disclosure:
   ``WyJBSngtMDk1VlBycFR0TjRRTU9xUk9BIiwgInRheF9pZF9jb2RlIiwgIlRJ``
   ``TklULVhYWFhYWFhYWFhYWFhYWFgiXQ``
-  Contents: ``["AJx-095VPrpTtN4QMOqROA", "tax_id_code",``
   ``"TINIT-XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"]``

> The combined format for the PID issuance is given by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The combined format for the PID issuance is represented below:
```
